project_brain.md, before:

# Project Brain - Modern Procurement System

## Architecture Overview

**Stack**: Next.js 14 (App Router) + Supabase + TypeScript + Tailwind CSS

**Key Design Decisions**:
- Server-first architecture using Server Components/Actions
- Row Level Security (RLS) for data protection
- Type-safe database operations with generated types
- Form handling via Server Actions (no client-side state management)

## Project Structure

```
src/
├── app/
│   ├── (auth)/              # Login/signup pages
│   │   ├── actions.ts       # Auth server actions
│   │   ├── login/page.tsx
│   │   └── signup/page.tsx
│   ├── (dashboard)/         # Protected routes
│   │   ├── layout.tsx       # Sidebar navigation
│   │   ├── dashboard/page.tsx  # Dashboard with real-time metrics
│   │   └── purchase-orders/
│   │       ├── actions.ts   # PO CRUD operations
│   │       ├── page.tsx     # PO listing
│   │       └── new/page.tsx # PO creation form
│   └── globals.css
├── components/
│   ├── ui/                  # Radix UI components
│   └── forms/               # Complex form components
├── lib/
│   ├── supabase/           # Database clients
│   ├── auth.ts             # Auth helpers
│   └── utils.ts            # Utilities
└── types/database.ts       # Supabase types
```

## Database Schema

**Core Tables**:
- `profiles` - User data linked to auth.users
- `suppliers` - Vendor information
- `products` - Product catalog with SKU/pricing
- `purchase_orders` - PO headers with status
- `po_items` - Line items with calculated totals

**Security**: RLS policies allow authenticated users full access to all tables.

## Key Implementation Details

### Authentication Flow
1. Server Actions handle login/signup with Zod validation
2. Middleware protects `/dashboard` routes
3. Server-side session management via cookies
4. Automatic profile creation on signup

### Data Access Pattern
```typescript
// Server Component data fetching
const supabase = await createClient()
const { data } = await supabase.from('table').select('*')

// Server Action mutations  
const supabase = await createActionClient()
await supabase.from('table').insert(data)
```

### Form Handling
- Client Components manage form state
- Server Actions handle validation and database operations
- Dynamic forms (PO creation) use indexed form data parsing
- Redirect after successful operations

### Dashboard Metrics
- Real-time data fetching from Supabase
- Displays actual counts for purchase orders, products, suppliers
- Shows total value of all purchase orders
- Lists recent purchase orders with status

### UI Components
- Radix UI primitives with Tailwind styling
- Reusable components following shadcn/ui patterns
- Type-safe props with database types

## Development Workflow

1. **Database**: Define schema in SQL migrations
2. **Types**: Generate TypeScript types from schema
3. **Server Actions**: Implement CRUD with validation
4. **Components**: Build UI with form handling
5. **Routes**: Create pages using Server Components

## Key Features Implemented

- ✅ User authentication (login/signup)
- ✅ Protected dashboard with navigation
- ✅ Real-time dashboard metrics
- ✅ Purchase order creation with dynamic line items
- ✅ Real-time form calculations
- ✅ Supplier/product data integration
- ✅ Server-side validation with Zod
- ✅ Type-safe database operations

## Configuration Files

- `next.config.mjs` - Next.js configuration
- `tailwind.config.ts` - Tailwind customization  
- `postcss.config.js` - PostCSS with autoprefixer
- `tsconfig.json` - TypeScript configuration
- `supabase/config.toml` - Supabase CLI configuration

## Deployment Requirements

1. Supabase project with applied migrations
2. Environment variables in production
3. Vercel deployment (automatic via GitHub)

## Testing the System

1. Apply migrations: `supabase db push`
2. Add sample data via SQL Editor
3. Test authentication flow
4. Create purchase orders with multiple items
5. Verify data persistence and calculations
6. Check dashboard displays correct metrics

## Recent Updates

- **Dashboard Fix (2025-06-16)**: Updated dashboard to fetch real purchase order counts and metrics from database instead of showing hardcoded zeros

Commit message:

Update project brain with column name fix details and schema notes

project_brain.md, after:

# Project Brain - Modern Procurement System

## Architecture Overview

**Stack**: Next.js 14 (App Router) + Supabase + TypeScript + Tailwind CSS

**Key Design Decisions**:
- Server-first architecture using Server Components/Actions
- Row Level Security (RLS) for data protection
- Type-safe database operations with generated types
- Form handling via Server Actions (no client-side state management)

## Project Structure

```
src/
├── app/
│   ├── (auth)/              # Login/signup pages
│   │   ├── actions.ts       # Auth server actions
│   │   ├── login/page.tsx
│   │   └── signup/page.tsx
│   ├── (dashboard)/         # Protected routes
│   │   ├── layout.tsx       # Sidebar navigation
│   │   ├── dashboard/page.tsx  # Dashboard with real-time metrics
│   │   └── purchase-orders/
│   │       ├── actions.ts   # PO CRUD operations
│   │       ├── page.tsx     # PO listing
│   │       └── new/page.tsx # PO creation form
│   └── globals.css
├── components/
│   ├── ui/                  # Radix UI components
│   └── forms/               # Complex form components
├── lib/
│   ├── supabase/           # Database clients
│   ├── auth.ts             # Auth helpers
│   └── utils.ts            # Utilities
└── types/database.ts       # Supabase types
```

## Database Schema

**Core Tables**:
- `profiles` - User data linked to auth.users
- `suppliers` - Vendor information
- `products` - Product catalog with SKU/pricing
- `purchase_orders` - PO headers with status (uses `total_amount` column)
- `po_items` - Line items with calculated totals

**Security**: RLS policies allow authenticated users full access to all tables.

## Key Implementation Details

### Authentication Flow
1. Server Actions handle login/signup with Zod validation
2. Middleware protects `/dashboard` routes
3. Server-side session management via cookies
4. Automatic profile creation on signup

### Data Access Pattern
```typescript
// Server Component data fetching
const supabase = await createClient()
const { data } = await supabase.from('table').select('*')

// Server Action mutations  
const supabase = await createActionClient()
await supabase.from('table').insert(data)
```

### Form Handling
- Client Components manage form state
- Server Actions handle validation and database operations
- Dynamic forms (PO creation) use indexed form data parsing
- Redirect after successful operations

### Dashboard Metrics
- Real-time data fetching from Supabase
- Displays actual counts for purchase orders, products, suppliers
- Shows total value of all purchase orders (using `total_amount` column)
- Lists recent purchase orders with status
- Includes error logging for debugging database issues

### UI Components
- Radix UI primitives with Tailwind styling
- Reusable components following shadcn/ui patterns
- Type-safe props with database types

## Development Workflow

1. **Database**: Define schema in SQL migrations
2. **Types**: Generate TypeScript types from schema
3. **Server Actions**: Implement CRUD with validation
4. **Components**: Build UI with form handling
5. **Routes**: Create pages using Server Components

## Key Features Implemented

- ✅ User authentication (login/signup)
- ✅ Protected dashboard with navigation
- ✅ Real-time dashboard metrics with proper error handling
- ✅ Purchase order creation with dynamic line items
- ✅ Real-time form calculations
- ✅ Supplier/product data integration
- ✅ Server-side validation with Zod
- ✅ Type-safe database operations

## Configuration Files

- `next.config.mjs` - Next.js configuration
- `tailwind.config.ts` - Tailwind customization  
- `postcss.config.js` - PostCSS with autoprefixer
- `tsconfig.json` - TypeScript configuration
- `supabase/config.toml` - Supabase CLI configuration

## Deployment Requirements

1. Supabase project with applied migrations
2. Environment variables in production
3. Vercel deployment (automatic via GitHub)

## Testing the System

1. Apply migrations: `supabase db push`
2. Add sample data via SQL Editor
3. Test authentication flow
4. Create purchase orders with multiple items
5. Verify data persistence and calculations
6. Check dashboard displays correct metrics
7. Monitor browser console for database errors

## Recent Updates

- **Dashboard Fix (2025-06-16)**: 
  - Fixed dashboard showing 0 purchase orders by correcting column name from `total` to `total_amount`
  - Added error logging to help identify database schema mismatches
  - Dashboard now shows real-time counts and total values from database

## Important Schema Notes

- Purchase orders table uses `total_amount` not `total` for the order value
- Always verify column names against migration files when debugging
- Use browser console to check for SQL errors like "column does not exist"
